#My first readme ALX Project Students Engineers are recognised by employers, peers and society for their moral and ethical standards and the quality of their work. Those who earn the engineering designation adhere to the highest technical, professional and ethical standards, and do work that contributes to the betterment of society. Their ability to solve complex problems benefits people around the world.

Here are seven good reasons to become an engineer:

The opportunity to improve lives Engineering provides real-world solutions to problems in areas as diverse as climate change, clean water, health technology and communications, to name a few. By choosing a career in engineering, you open up the possibility of improving the lives of people and communities locally, nationally and internationally.

The opportunity to innovate Engineers push the boundaries of applied science, solving technical problems to take construction, manufacturing, medicine and many other fields to new heights. Engineering is often at the forefront of innovation and plays an important role in shaping society and its future.

Protecting the public interest To become an engineer is to demonstrate that you have the public interest of society in mind, including the protection of life, health, property, economic interests, public welfare and the environment. For these reasons, engineers are respected by the public and viewed in the same way as licensed professionals in other fields such as medicine and law.

Better career options Employers recognize the high level of knowledge, skills and competencies that must be acquired and maintained to be a licensed engineer. The P.Eng. licence not only enhances professional status, but also demonstrates a long-term commitment to the profession and its ethical foundation. In addition, the high level of accountability and responsibility involved in becoming a licensed engineer has important benefits in terms of developing decision-making and leadership skills.

High level of trust In the eyes of employers, peers and the public, licensed engineers clearly demonstrate their competence and commitment to developing their skills and knowledge in their field. Only licensed engineers can affix their seal and signature to engineering drawings or serve as fully qualified expert witnesses in cases involving engineering work.

Higher earning potential Engineering remains one of the highest paid and most sought-after professions, which generally translates into higher earnings at all career stages. Organizations also recognize that having engineers on staff brings great benefits in terms of client confidence and bottom line.

Protection from market forces For the professional engineer, there are many opportunities, as they can work for a company or set up their own business. This flexibility can serve as a hedge against industry downsizing or outsourcing during their career.
